Welcome to MGSMUN 2021 DISEC. With increasingly powerful weapons being invented and divergent diplomatic affairs emerging, it is the responsibility of DISEC to regulate and manage the use and creation of such weapons and to help maintain international security through debate and co-operation.

The two issues that DISEC will be debating pertain to the sky and the sea. First is the issue of nuclear-powered submarines, which has been made a contentious issue through the signing of the AUKUS nuclear-powered submarine deal, which was announced on the 15th September 2021, countering Chinese influence in the Indo-pacific region. This leads to a number of questions, including those concerning the regulation of the construction and use of nuclear submarines, the areas as to where nuclear submarines should be permitted (including the South China Sea), and the effects nuclear-powered submarine technology may have on world peace as a whole.

The second issue is that of the use of drones in Afghan airspace and further aerial operations from the USA and other member states in the area. Since the US withdrew from Afghanistan on August 30th, 2021, there has been the contentious issue of foreign aircraft in and around Afghan airspace, with the USA recently signing a deal with Pakistan to use Pakistani airspace to conduct surveillance operations in Afghanistan, in addition to US drones being used for assassinations. This leads to issues as to whether the USA should be permitted to use drones in Afghanistan to target anti-US terrorists, Afghan sovereignty, and wider treaties in relation to the use of autonomous drones and airspace agreements.

Please take time in researching your issues thoroughly, focus on your countries positions and involvement in these issues, and it is recommended you produce a resolution on one of these issues. Regardless of your prior experience in Model United Nations, we look forward to seeing you at the conference in December.

> All resolutions must be emailed to chadwickl-y16@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line.
