# The Issue of Global Pensions and Old-Age Income Poverty
On average in the OECD, 13.5% of individuals aged over 65 live in relative income poverty, defined as having an income below half the national median equivalized household disposable income. Their income gap to the relative poverty line is 23.5% on average. Poverty rates are higher for older people than for the population as a whole, which averages 11.8%.

The International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimates that 90% of the world's working age population is not covered by pension schemes capable of providing adequate retirement income. Pension funds, both state and workplace, play a vital and in many cases an outsized role in providing the elderly with a regular, decent income. Insufficient pension funds, or even lack of participation, considerably stunts one’s ability to maintain an adequate standard of living in retirement. For example, in Thailand, only 1 in 5 are part of the government's pension scheme, despite their aim to incorporate every citizen. Given the changing demographics, in which there has been a decrease from 17 working-age people to 13 for every person over-65 and increased life expectancy, old-age poverty is expected to increase.

A workplace pension is vital for many to ensure an adequate and comfortable retirement, yet individuals commonly don't contribute sufficient funds to achieve this; according to research by the Pensions Policy Institute (PPI), 78% of the income of the poorest pensioners in the UK comes from the state pension fund, while for all below the median distribution of income, 53% of income is derived from the state pension. Insufficient participation and contribution rates, along with over-reliance on supplementary state pensions are not unique to the UK, with 45% of South African pensioners expecting to run out of money during retirement.

Intervention is increasingly necessary as a result of the increasing predominance of defined contribution as opposed to defined benefit pension funds, largely replacing them in the private sector. Defined benefit plans require little active management, and the total sum received in retirement following participation in such a program will be equivalent to that of a colleague working the same job for the same duration; defined benefit plans are particular forgiving, with plan sponsors having created an unmalleable formula that dictates the payments made to retired participants, as well as holding responsibility for the choice and magnitude of investments. In Australia, a form of defined pension scheme, superannuation, exists on a national level: where all those who work and reside in the nation are required to pay 9% (rising to 12% of their annual earnings by 2025) to a super account. Defined contribution plans, however, are much less forgiving, with the consequences of mandating individuals with little financial literacy to make complex saving decisions often resulting in detrimental outcomes. This further complicates, and perhaps worsens, the issue of old-age poverty.

## Points to Consider:

- Addressing nations and areas in which there is no pension scheme, or the current pension system is almost entirely ineffective.

- Addressing inefficiencies in pension systems and attempts to increase participation rates. The may be done via market based solutions, but a behavioural perspective may also be useful in this case. A number of case studies, not limited to the UK's Automatic enrolment scheme in 2012, defaults used in the privatization of Swedish Social Security in early 2000s, and academic proposals such as 'Save More Tomorrow' may provide some scope for research into this issue.

- Other non-market based methods to decrease Old-Age Income Poverty, such as Australian-style superannuation.

> All resolutions must be emailed to kadirm-y15@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line. 
