# The Issue of Economic Recovery Post-COVID
The COVID-19 viral pandemic continues to be a highly personal, individual experience that is also an unprecedented globally-shared phenomenon with wide-ranging repercussions. The pandemic has disrupted lives across all countries and communities and negatively affected global economic growth in 2020 beyond anything experienced in nearly a century. Estimates indicate the virus reduced global economic growth in 2020 to an annualized rate of -3.4% to -7.6%, with a recovery of 4.2% to 5.6% projected for 2021. Global trade is estimated to have fallen by 5.3% in 2020, but is projected to grow by 8.0% in 2021. According to a consensus of forecasts, the economic downturn in 2020 was not as negative as initially estimated, due in part to the fiscal and monetary policies governments adopted in 2020. Generally, economic growth forecasts captured the decline and subsequent rebound in economic growth over the second and third quarters of 2020, but have been challenged since by the prolonged nature of the health crisis and its continuing impact on the global economy.

As some developed economies start recovering, central banks and national governments are considering the impact of tapering off monetary and fiscal support - such as central banks increasing interest rates or governments ending COVID-19 support schemes - as a result of concerns over potential inflationary pressures, weighed against the prospect of slowing the pace of the recovery. These concerns are compounded by the emergence of new disease variants and rolling pandemic hotspots. Major advanced economies, which comprise 60% of global economic activity, are projected to operate below their potential output level through at least 2024, which indicates lower national and individual economic welfare relative to pre-pandemic levels. Compared with the synchronized nature of the global economic slowdown in the first half of 2020, the global economy has shown signs of a two-track recovery that began in the third quarter of 2020 and has been marked by a nascent recovery in developed economies, but a slower pace of growth in developing economies.

As a whole, developed economies have made strides in vaccinating growing shares of their populations, raising prospects of a strong economic recovery in HICs through 2021 and, in turn, through the broader global economy over the next two years. However, new variants of the COVID-19 virus and a surge in diagnosed cases in large developing economies, as well as resistance to vaccinations among some populations in developed economies raise questions about the speed and strength of an economic recovery over the near term. A resurgence of infectious cases in Europe, Russia, the United States, Japan, Brazil, India, and across much of Africa has renewed calls for lockdowns and curfews and threatens to weaken or delay a potential sustained economic recovery into mid to late 2021. The economic fallout from the pandemic has affected certain industrial sectors of the economy and certain population groups disparately and could risk continued labour dislocations as a result of lingering high levels of unemployment not experienced since the Great Depression of the 1930s. In some cases, workers are reconsidering their career choices and work patterns, which may imply a post-pandemic economy marked by more varied labour arrangements and an altered urban environment.

The human costs in terms of lives lost will permanently affect global economic growth, in addition to the pandemic cost on wider society of elevated levels of poverty, lives upended, careers derailed, and increased social unrest. Some estimates indicate that 95 million people may have entered into extreme poverty in 2020 with 80 million more undernourished compared to pre-pandemic levels. The economic impact of the pandemic is expected to lessen in developed economies where vaccinations are facilitating a return to pre-pandemic levels of activity. In developing countries, however, outbreaks of new viral variants could prolong the pandemic and dampen prospects of a recovery.

## Points to Consider:

- What policies can be instituted that will ameliorate economies globally?

- Can measures be taken to prevent increases in global inequality? Will the unequal vaccine distribution inexorably lead to further economic inequality between developed and developing nations?

- Are certain policies better tailored towards specific nations, and can this be displayed in a UN resolution?

- Can microeconomic approaches, with policies focussed on specific markets be used in conjunction with macroeconomic approaches?

- In this case, is it appropriate for the UN to make recommendations for monetary and fiscal policy?

> All resolutions must be emailed to kadirm-y15@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line. 
