# The Issue of Inaccessibility to Medicines
Lack of access to medicines causes a cascade of misery and suffering, from no relief for the excruciating pain of a child’s earache, to women who bleed to death during childbirth, to deaths from diseases that are easily and inexpensively prevented or cured. Lack of access to medicines is one inequality that can be measured by a starkly visible yardstick: numbers of preventable deaths.

Efforts to improve access to medicines are driven by a compelling ethical imperative. People should not be denied access to life-saving or health-promoting interventions for unfair reasons, including those with economic or social causes. Millions of yearly childhood deaths from diseases that could have been prevented or cured by existing medical products would be unthinkable in a fair and just world. An estimated two billion people have no access to essential medicines, effectively shutting them off from the benefits of advances in modern science and medicine.

The inaccessibility of medicine is perpetuated by the lack of availability and affordability of medications, supply chain regulations, and national drug policies. Poor procurement practices, entailing the obtaining of medicine, among federal governments catalyse frequent stock-outs in local and rural pharmacies. Furthermore, a lack of local manufacturers and an overwhelming majority of medicine being imported with high costs and exchange rates engender medicine that is neither affordable to the average civilian nor suited to the needs of impoverished regions. Consequently, hospital staff in nations across the globe are left with no alternative but to prescribe painkillers as a universal medicine; such painkillers are ineffective when combating specific illnesses, including rashes and cold symptoms. The inaccessibility of medicine further stimulates the creation of counterfeit drugs that hold no probative medical value and may contain dangerous toxins.

Many civilians around the globe are thus left with two choices: leaving an illness or infection untreated or paying a hefty price for treatment. By choosing to treat themselves, families, especially in developing nations, are required to sell a family asset, such as cattle or a home, the absence of which perpetuates an intergenerational poverty cycle. Those who are wholly unable to afford treatment are unfortunately left in misery.

### Case Study: Syria
Prior to the Syrian Civil War, over 90% of medicines in Syria were produced locally. Given that a significant portion of the nation has been a war zone since March 2011, Syria has faced countless infrastructural and economic barriers to producing medicine, resulting in a 90 percent drop in general medicines available throughout the nation. Today, Syria lacks the personnel, infrastructure, and facilities to distribute medicine, especially in fatal circumstances. One-quarter of a million civilians, including 948 healthcare workers, have died during the military conflict within the past nine years. Furthermore, 566 attacks have been documented on 348 healthcare facilities. Only five years into the conflict did the Syrian government approve a medicine shipment to a hospital in Aleppo, meaning that civilians who have been injured as collateral damage in the war effort or who are sick are largely unable to access necessary medicines. The lack of facilities pose various difficulties in administering medicines to citizens. Although initiatives have been launched by NGOs in Syria, including the humanitarian efforts of MSF to establish medicine distribution and healthcare camps, several non-government organizations are forced to exit the region due to safety precautions and the ongoing conflict.

## Points to Consider

- How can medicine be made accessible in regions experiencing military conflict or warfare, such as Syria?
- What actions must sovereign governments take in terms of procuring medicine to ensure that medicine is secure?
- How do national and international drug laws and policies impact medicine accessibility?
- How can access to medicine be strengthened in the short-term and the long-term?
- Why should medicine be suited to fit regional needs and prices? How can this be implemented?
- What barriers must be combated to ensure that civilians in your country are able to access medicine? What solutions can you implement to counter those barriers?

> All resolutions must be emailed to mohammedi-y15@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line. 
