As the world recovers from COVID-19, it has been easy for member states to have let their focus on human rights lapse. Therefore, it's important to put crucial questions of citizens' human rights back at the top of the agenda, which this committee will do as we debate the endearing and important issues of unaccompanied migrant children/adolescents and the effect of climate change on poor communities. Of course, both these issues are linked — it is our responsibility to make sure the interests of desperate and unrepresented people are considered at the highest seat of global power: the United Nations. By working together to find solutions to these longstanding blots on the world's record – that are likely to only become worse in the future — our committee can ensure that the United Nations continues to consider the human impact of diplomacy.

Our first issue is on unaccompanied migrant children and adolescents. Living as we did through the European Refugee Crisis of 2015, we saw on the news daily the suffering of these vulnerable groups as they attempt to make the perilous journey across borders. They are particularly vulnerable to exploitation and their human rights are frequently violated, especially by those working in the illegal trade assisting them in moving from place to place. And yet, despite the fact that this issue no longer graces newspaper headlines, it remains persistent. Every year, steady flows of young people — in search of a better life — attempt to cross national borders illegally, and yet little has been done to address this problem on an international level. Even in the European Union, countries abandoned a unified policy and began to deal with migrants individually. It is our responsibility, in this committee, to try and unite countries behind an approach that puts the human rights of these vulnerable children and adolescents first.

Our second issue is on the effect of climate change on poor communities. As is known, the poorest in the world are being and are likely to be disproportionately affected by climate change. And yet their voices are often side-lined for big headline targets, figures, and projections. As the human rights committee, we want to ensure that the global response considers those who are so often ignored, and whose human rights are likely to be the most affected by these decisions. Indeed, climate refugees, forced to flee their homelands because of climatic change, will largely come from poorer nations and backgrounds. As global warming continues to accelerate, famine, shortages of resources, and health issues are only likely to exacerbate for the global poor. Hence, it is crucial that the human rights and real livelihoods behind the climate crisis are debated at the highest level of decision-making, and the human rights committee achieves real results.

We'd highly encourage you to research your issues thoroughly, using the briefing papers, resources, and your own extra googling to get a hold on the facts around the issues, as well as your country's position on the problems and how they've responded to them up to this point. We'd love for you to get involved in the debate, whether you're a new delegate or an old hand, and submitting a resolution can be a great way to set you up for success – demonstrating creativity in solving the problems at hand as well as providing material for amendments. We're very excited to welcome you to our warm, friendly and fun committee and hope you have a fantastic time at MGSMUN21, having some fruitful debate as well as a good laugh!

> All resolutions must be emailed to barclayn-y15@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line.
