In our dangerous and unpredictable world, the United Nations’ Security Council continues to be one of the most important tools diplomats have to keep the peace. In an era of increasing abrasiveness and competition between major powers, and countries on the front line such as Afghanistan being thrown to the fore of global news once again, delegates on the Council have an enormous and increasing responsibility to keep us safe, whilst trying to strike some of the toughest bargains between diametrically opposed interests in living memory – a tall order!

This year, we have chosen to debate two of the most pressing international security concerns we face in the Security Council. Solving these are at the heart of diplomacy now, and over the years to come. Our first issue is on Taiwan, which raises huge questions; not only about the sovereignty of an island of 23 million inhabitants, but of a wider geopolitical conflict between East and West: China and the USA bashing heads over one of the most historically and culturally sensitive issues in both nations’ recent history. Other regional players, such as Vietnam, the Philippines and Japan are also now globally important, and will further complicate solving an issue that is not only about a people and a nation, but also territorial sovereignty, power and global supremacy. And yet it seems to be in all parties’ interest to resolve the spat and deescalate tensions – the only question for delegates is how can it be done?

Our second issue is on Afghanistan, another historically-shaped and longstanding problem, that encompasses not only the longstanding suffering of the Afghani people and the conflict between the Taliban militant group, the US-backed government and several extremist and regional forces too, but also the wider stability of the region, with power players such as Pakistan, Iran and China figuring out how to play the rapid and extreme shift in circumstances in Afghanistan over recent months. Does the conflict risk becoming – as it was back in the 1980s – another fault-line between East and West, China and Russia against America? Again, delegates will have to thrash out a solution that addresses all of these concerns, whilst balancing the radically different motives and objectives of member states. Given the current circumstances, it’s going to be tough – can we do it?

We would highly recommend that you research the issues and your countries’ respective positions on them. Given that the Security Council is for experienced delegates, we’d like you to think beyond what your country’s government says in public about deeper and more secretive objectives. How can your country maximise their options or generate possible courses of action, whatever the outcome of each of these disputes? Please do read the briefing papers and explore the recommended further reading provided as a starting point, and we’d love for all delegates to submit a resolution on at least one of the issues, which demonstrate your understanding and compromise skills whilst also providing the basis for amendments. Another quick note is that the Security Council will be working using its specific procedures, with clause-by-clause debate, P5 vetoes and 2/3 majorities as the modus operandi, and delegates should consider these constraints when proposing solutions. We look forward to welcoming you to our conference, and hope for a fruitful, productive (and also fun!) debate.

---
## Briefing papers

[The Issue of Taiwan](/committees/security/issue1)

[The Issue of Afghanistan](/committees/security/issue2)

> All resolutions must be emailed to fosterz-y16@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th of December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line.
