# The Issue of Taiwan

The island of Taiwan (even to call it Taiwan is controversial) has been a global melting pot of tension since the formation of the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in 1949. The historical significance of its development as such is important; and the story really begins back at the beginning of the 20th century, with the overthrowing of the Qing dynasty in the 1911 Revolution. During the next decade, no one force managed to conquer the whole of the Chinese territories, and the country was effectively ruled by warlords. During the period 1924-27, the First United Front (a powerful Southern nationalist warlord, Chiang Kai-shek, in alliance with the infant Chinese Communist Party) united much of the country, before Chiang turned on his Marxist allies. A Second United Front was formed in 1937 with the common cause of fighting the Japanese in the Second Sino-Japanese War. However, in 1945, with the Japanese defeated, CCP Leader Mao Zedong was again turned on by Chiang’s Nationalists (Kuomintang), which was internationally recognised and controlled most of southern and central China. Despite early successes, the Kuomintang were eventually driven southwards as the CCP took over the country during the Chinese Civil War (1945-49). Eventually, they were exiled to the island of Taiwan, a defensible stronghold on which they formed the Republic of China (ROC), claiming the whole of China now united as the PRC. The PRC has continued to claim that the island of Taiwan is no more than a rebellious province of a rightfully united, communist China.

Until the 1970s, during the height of the Cold War, the US – in trying to limit the spread of communism – recognised the ROC as the legitimate Chinese government, but in 1972, with President Richard Nixon’s visit to China, the US changed tack and tried to appease the CCP, recognising it as the sole government of China under the “One China” policy. This has led to a working relationship between the PRC and US, a reduction in economic and political sanctions, and a burgeoning reciprocal trading and economic relationship. However, with the continuing US supply of resources and weapons to the ROC to defend against a potential invasion from the PRC, the relationship has been fraught with difficulties. Indeed, given the increasing Chinese military threat against Taiwan and international speculation that Chinese President Xi Jinping will launch an invasion operation in order to solidify his domestic political position as he seeks to become the most powerful Chinese leader since Mao, future geopolitical cooperation between the world’s two pre-eminent superpowers is likely to be threatened. Chinese military action in the South China Sea, which has involved militarisation over several reefs and small islands over thousands of square miles, as well as extensive land, sea and air wargaming, has further alarmed the international community as to their plans. From a geopolitical standpoint too, it makes considerable sense for China to launch a takeover attempt of Taiwan – to become a powerful regional player, and to develop a Bluewater navy with global reach, extensive and unobstructed oceanic access is required – access that the PRC currently does not enjoy. Hemmed in by the Korean Peninsula, Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines, Borneo and the Indochinese Peninsula, the Chinese coastline provides relatively little discreetness with regards to naval activity compared to the US’ two long coastlines with unobstructed access to the two largest bodies of water on the planet.

Hence, the tension is high between China and much of the international community over its intentions for relations with Taiwan. China itself has done little to defuse such speculation, supporting Chinese-friendly political candidates on the island, with top officials repeatedly emphasising the “One China” policy in public displays of strength. To cite one example from Xi in a 2019 speech to celebrate 40 years of dialogue between the two Chinas, Taiwan “must and will be” reunited with China. International policy experts, for example former Australian Prime Minister and diplomat to the PRC Kevin Rudd, have publicly warned that Chinese demands of reunification are not simple threats:

> With peaceful reunification off the table, Xi's strategy now is clear: to vastly increase the level of military power that China can exert in the Taiwan strait, to the extent that the United States would become willing to fight a battle that Washington itself judged it would probably lose. Without US backing, Xi believes, Taiwan would either capitulate or fight on its own and lose

Although Mr Rudd points out several flaws with this thinking, the fact that global experts consider any sort of invasion to be within the CCP’s thinking is deeply worrying for regional peace and global stability. And yet providing a peaceful solution on this issue is going to be challenging for all delegates. The Chinese government is extremely sensitive about the provision of universal sovereignty over the entire territory, so a two-state or dual-sovereignty solution seems to be out of reach. Equally, Taiwan is closed off to a "one country, two systems" approach along the lines of Hong Kong, citing how that territory has been steadily assimilated into the Chinese political and judicial traditions well before the 50-year grace period is up. The US, meanwhile, continues to controversially provide finance and military equipment to Taiwan, whilst remaining China’s key trading partner. Presidents Trump and Biden have become increasingly publicly hostile to China, ramping up sanctions and calling out human rights abuses, especially regarding the treatment of Uighur Muslims in Xinjiang. Ultimately, delegates are going to have to work through a difficult compromise to de-escalate tensions and set us on the path to a peaceful and less-confrontational future for the entire region. 

## Points to Consider
- Does your nation recognise the PRC/ROC now or historically?

- Is it possible to achieve peaceful reconciliation between Taiwan and China despite the increasing escalation of tensions?

- How can the sensitive political/historical context be considered in any potential settlement?

- Will any settlement regarding compromise on China’s part be seen as the US securing its position as the world’s dominant superpower and stunting China’s growth and development?

- How can the controversial issues of Taiwan’s militarisation and China’s South China Sea aggression and wargaming be addressed?

- What would be the wider geopolitical consequences of allowing tensions to rise further? 

## Further Research
[Xi Jinping says Taiwan 'must and will be' reunited with China - BBC News](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-46733174)

[Cross-Strait relations - Wikipedia](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-asia-china-46733174)

[Is war between China and Taiwan inevitable? - Economist Intelligence Unit (eiu.com)](https://www.eiu.com/n/is-war-between-china-and-taiwan-inevitable/)

[US has few good options if China seizes islands close to Taiwan, war game concludes - CNNPolitics](https://edition.cnn.com/2021/10/26/politics/us-taiwan-war-game/index.html)

[Kevin Rudd: How to Keep U.S.-Chinese Confrontation From Ending in Calamity | Foreign Affairs](https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/united-states/2021-02-05/kevin-rudd-usa-chinese-confrontation-short-of-war) 

> All resolutions must be emailed to fosterz-y16@mgs.org before 23.59 on Friday 10th of December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line.
