# The Issue of Cryptocurrencies
Cryptocurrencies have undoubtedly risen in prominence over the last 5 years with monthly trades now reaching over £8 trillion. With their sudden rise, the time has come for the UN to address some issues that surround cryptocurrencies. In the past year El Salvador has announced plans to make Bitcoin legal tender, China announced a crackdown on Bitcoin mining and Iran has suffered power outages from supercomputers mining bitcoin.

Over the last year there have been 32 incidents of hacking and fraud regarding cryptocurrencies valuing over $2.99 billion and in the last year 10 years $19.2 billion has been stolen through breaches and fraud. The lack of cybersecurity with cryptocurrencies can be of massive concern for investors. The Swiss blockchain company, Trade.io, had $8 million stolen from its online wallet. Another major issue is the high volatility of cryptocurrencies and how easily they can be manipulated by prominent people like Elon Musk. These, however, are concerns that could potentially be addressed to make cryptocurrencies a more reliable currency.

The environmental impact of Bitcoin has been estimated as producing as much carbon emissions as Argentina within a year and this is expected to rise to the levels of the Netherlands in the next couple of years. 65% of Bitcoin traders are located in China, where most of the power is generated by coal. Remember that not all cryptocurrencies have a significant environmental impact but the ones that do, have a serious environmental impact. This is because there are two types of cryptocurrencies, proof of work cryptocurrencies which run lots of pointless maths which requires a larger amount of energy and this energy amount increase as more is mined e.g. Bitcoin, whereas, proof of stake uses the bases of trust between computers and hence requires less energy to mine, e.g. Ethereum 2.0.

The technology that powers them, blockchain, could play a central role in sustainable development. The World Food Programme, which delivers humanitarian aid cash, has found blockchain can help ensure that cash gets to those who need it.

These are to name just a few of the controversies and problems that have surrounded cryptocurrencies in recent years and now is your opportunity to get creative with ideas and solutions on how to tackle some of these issues. One of the major challenges in dealing with cryptocurrencies is they are open source and so nobody owns or controls them which makes regulation much harder. Below are some points to consider, to give you some ideas, but feel free address any of the issues regarding cryptocurrencies within your resolution. Remember to try and stick to your country's stance on cryptocurrencies, most of which can be found by a quick Google search.

## Points to Consider

- Can or should the UN regulate cryptocurrencies? If not should the UN encourage or support countries developing regulations on cryptocurrencies trading apps?

- Should the UN support cryptocurrency development or even potentially invest money into different cryptocurrencies?

- Should countries use cryptocurrencies as a national currency?

- What can be done to help protect people from cybersecurity issues surrounding cryptocurrencies?

- Should we be concerned about the environmental impact of cryptocurrencies and if so what can be done to help mitigate this risk? 

## Further research

[Regulating the no man’s coin – the rapid rise of cryptocurrencies has regulators scratching their heads (UN DESA)](https://www.un.org/development/desa/en/news/policy/cryptocurrencies.html)

[Sustainability solution or climate calamity? The dangers and promise of cryptocurrency technology (UN News)](https://news.un.org/en/story/2021/06/1094362)

[The Disastrous Environmental Impact of Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency (greekreporter.com)](https://greekreporter.com/2021/09/05/the-disastrous-environmental-impact-of-bitcoin-and-cryptocurrency/)

[Major Problems in the Cryptocurrency Market (Hacker Noon)](https://hackernoon.com/major-problems-in-the-cryptocurrency-market-c9c9ff53b266)

[The Problem with Cryptocurrencies (bbntimes.com)](https://www.bbntimes.com/technology/the-problem-with-cryptocurrencies)

[Cryptocurrency hacks and fraud are on track for a record number of incidents in 2021, data shows (businessinsider.com)](https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/currencies/cryptocurrency-hacks-fraud-cases-record-bitcoin-ethereum-wallets-breaches-defi-2021-8)

> All resolutions must be emailed to aspine-y15@mgs.org before 23.59 on Thursday 9th December. Please put your country and issue within the subject line.
